everybody welcome to another episode of
impact theory today we are talking about
one of my favorite topics and that is
the first steps in nfts web3 blockchain
crypto however you want to think about
it that entire universe which is going
to change the world
[Music]
it is happening so fast it is crazy and
we're going to be talking about how you
can get into that space
how to orient yourself quickly so that
if you know nothing you can very quickly
get yourself in
orient
be doing things safely and have an
understanding of where things are going
all right so we're going to be answering
your questions here it is first one
if you are very interested in web3 and
want to move forward with it what are
the skills that you need to learn what
are different ways to interact with web3
okay this depends on whether you want to
be a community member in web3 or you
want to be an active creator in web3 if
you want to be a creator that's very
different for that you're going to
really need to understand where things
are going and how you're going to be
able to
create in it what the changes are that
it's going to be making at a high level
i would say the best way to understand
web3 is to go in and learn about
blockchain technology so whether you
want to be a community member or a
creator that's going to be the first
step that was where i started so i had
no intention of becoming a coder or
anything like that but i knew that if i
could understand
what the technology actually was what it
did that i would be able to
better predict where things were going
and once you can predict then you can do
something novel and so whether that
prediction is what you should be buying
and holding if you're going to take
an approach to this as investing in
overpriced jpegs as people lovingly say
in the industry
or whether you want to engage with it as
an upcoming form of entertainment or
whether you want to code that really is
the foundational thing is you need to be
able to predict where this is going
and
to understand that the basics of
blockchain are most easily discovered i
would say by taking the biggest
blockchain right now there's really two
that i think are critically important if
you're looking at this from an
investment standpoint i would start with
the bitcoin uh chain really look into
what's going on on um the world of
bitcoin understand that understand the
fundamentals understand why it's
considered to be
a replacement may not be the exact word
but certainly analogous to gold that
this is sound money that it has a fixed
supply and that the blockchain is
designed to resist change that it can
change but it is very difficult to make
changes to the bitcoin uh protocol and
that is what gives it its stability that
is why people look at it uh to be a
sound money equivalent and so getting
into what is money i will point you to
robert breedlove he is an extraordinary
voice in this space that will really
help you understand what sound money is
why it's so important but that's going
to be the first place if you're looking
at this as a long-term investment i
would highly encourage you to look at
that now of course there are dissenting
opinions and there are many people that
take a very broad approach to
cryptocurrencies and how to invest in
everything from investing in the
currencies to investing in the
nfts is obviously a huge path that
people are treating as an investment
vehicle we will talk more about my
opinions on that later
but for now
bitcoin and ethereum are the two that i
would point to so for sound money
bitcoin makes a lot of sense to me again
this is one man's opinion
as you get deeper into this you're going
to want to take a broader look at what
else is going on so you can really
understand the full breadth of what is
happening in terms of cryptocurrency uh
but starting with bitcoin i think is the
right place to start and by the way full
disclosure in terms of my own
investments i have minor investments in
a lot of things but the only thing that
i have real substantial portions of my
net worth in are bitcoin and ethereum so
uh for anybody that wants to accuse me
of pumping my bags you would be
absolutely right that bitcoin and
ethereum are something i've placed huge
bets on
but ultimately i am
chain agnostic as both a creator and an
investor i'll pay attention if i see the
wins are changing then i would look at
uh moving elsewhere but i am a big
believer that picking a few
well-researched bets which by the way
i'm not a financial advisor do your own
research that is critically important to
understand
but i think placing a few
well-researched bets and then having
time in the market instead of trying to
time the market
which is an old adage i would say is a
very wise old adage so bitcoin and
ethereum that's where i'd start now if
you want to be a
active community member around the
social movement of web 3 and i will
definitely say that web3 naturally
encourages crypto encompasses excuse me
cryptocurrencies but there is a very
important and meaningful distinction to
be made between
bitcoin which is primarily a financial
instrument and ethereum which is while
it is definitely a financial instrument
given eth
and how
people look at it as programmable money
but there is a much broader world to all
of the blockchains that allow you to
create things on them now there are a
lot of blockchains i'm going to focus my
time and attention on ethereum for a
couple of reasons one i understand it
the best and two i've come to understand
the best because when i looked at it in
the beginning truly objectively before i
had any investment in it whatsoever
there's an adage that says follow the
developers and to this day that is where
the vast majority of developers are
creating is on the ethereum blockchain
now that may not last forever and so
again as you get deeper into this world
broadening your understanding of more
blockchains i think is very wise but
since we're talking first steps say keep
things simple start with those two
understand the basics and the
fundamentals and you're going to go a
long way now what is a blockchain
i think that's an incredibly important
thing to understand a blockchain very
simply put is
you are creating a distributed ledger so
it is a
database that you're putting on a lot of
computers in some cases thousands of
computers and so it becomes
extraordinarily difficult to hack it
because all of those thousands of
computers have to agree on what the
ledger says now i don't understand the
under the hood technology well enough to
give you a phd level dissertation so
i'll keep this very high level but what
it's doing is
whenever a transaction occurs somebody
buys something
transfers something that when that
happens that's what's called settled on
the blockchain meaning it's written to
the blockchain all of those thousand
computers or thousands of computers
depending on the blockchain say do we
agree on this yes or no if yes cool we
write it to the ledger you need at least
51 percent to agree
if not then the transaction will be
considered false and it won't be written
to the blockchain and so the blockchain
is this immutable thing that nobody can
change you can't hack it unless
obviously you're going through the
actual channels of buying and
transferring
but
once it's written to the blockchain
there's no way to change it so if we put
something on the blockchain like the
impact theory founders keys there are
most of the elements of that because
there are some parts of the metadata
that can be adjusted but for the most
part once it's on the blockchain that's
it in fact the things that are on the
blockchain are immutable the things that
are pointed to that actually exist off
the blockchain i don't want to get too
complicated here those can be changed
but for the most part
just think of it this way once it's
written to the blockchain it's forever
and so getting it on the blockchain is a
tremendous way to secure something so on
the bitcoin network to secure your money
obviously if you have a literal gold bar
you have to carry that with you if you
want to take it somewhere else whereas
when you think about making that gold
bar virtual in the case of bitcoin now i
can take it wherever i want um
just by moving myself or by taking a
thumb drive with me but you could
literally memorize what's called a seed
phrase you could memorize that yourself
go to a new country type in the seed
phrase into a new computer and boom you
have access to everything right there uh
so there are a whole host of reasons why
that's valuable but the big thing that i
focus on as a creator in the blockchain
space is that now you can create true
authentic ownership of virtual goods
which did not exist before and so that
begs the question will people value
virtual goods in the same way that they
value physical goods now that question
in my opinion has been asked and
answered
billions of dollars a month
flow into the blockchain via nfts
it's i think as of today i honestly
haven't checked but we have been over
i think two trillion dollars in terms of
assets and cryptocurrencies as a total
and so when you think about
how much money has come into this space
whether in the form of nfts or purchase
currencies or defy i'm just the list
goes on and on
it's
extraordinary it it is a sea change in
the way the world works
and what the world is saying is that yes
if we know that that virtual item can be
secured then and authenticated then we
do value virtual goods as much if not
more than we value physical goods now i
never would have imagined that the
following statement would be true for me
but it is
for the most part not entirely but for
the most part
the things that i certainly collect
i would rather have a digital version of
that than a physical version of that all
right my friend i have a big
announcement my incredible and talented
wife lisa is about to launch her new
book radical confidence in it she has
managed to perfectly capture the process
of how to go from feeling lost and
insecure to taking control of your life
and doing amazing things despite feeling
fear sometimes a lot of fear now let me
tell you nobody knows lisa better than
me but when i read radical confidence
for the first time and heard her
describe what it was like for her to go
from having these big exciting dreams as
a kid to then as an adult scheduling her
life around the tv shows that she wanted
to watch or how lonely and isolated she
felt instead of pursuing her dreams it
was brutal for me i would never say
though that it was worth it for her to
go through all of that just so that she
could write something down that allows
others to avoid it but i will say that
at least she was able to capture the
strategies that she used to break out of
that rut find her voice and begin doing
incredible things despite her
insecurities and fears that she wasn't
going to be good enough to achieve great
things so while it hurts me to know the
dark place that lisa went through i
really am excited for people who are
going through something similar right
now to read this book radical confidence
is an instruction manual for how to
become the hero of your own life even
when you're scared to death look i know
better than just about anybody how easy
it is to get off track in life or to
just not have yet found your calling and
it's even easier for people to feel so
insecure and unprepared that they don't
even want to pursue the things that they
want but what lisa shows people in
radical confidence is that the radical
part is that you can accomplish
extraordinary things even when you feel
fear that's what radical confidence is
being afraid and unsure and having a
tool kit that allows you to still make
massive progress pre-order your copy
today because if you act now you can
claim the bonuses that lisa has created
for you at
radicalconfidence.com they're only
available if you pre-order so act now
then once you've done that we'll get
back to today's episode all right guys
read the book and get ready to be the
hero of your own life peace out
[Music]
so for every statue that i have behind
me i have more things in the nft world
that i've collected and part of that
reason is that you can connect with a
global audience and so you can buy
things made by people halfway around the
world instantaneously it's very
extraordinary and you can show it to
people halfway around the world
instantaneously so if the things that we
collect are like these signaling
molecules that we show to people about
who we are and what we love what we have
an affinity for
the ability to show people
all over the place instantly in a highly
curated way i can go in and decorate and
display it in a virtual gallery it's
really pretty extraordinary so
once you understand that the blockchain
is the thing that allows me to say you
see that digital thing over there i
actually own that and the human mind
whether it should or not is irrelevant
the human mind the way that it works is
that we value
ownership now again you can say that
that's dumb but the reality is that's
how the human mind works and so millions
of years of evolution have led us to the
point where we value ownership we value
signaling we value flexing quite frankly
and showing people the things that we've
collected that we have that we love to
be able to find other people that enjoy
those same things
and so people have just really taken to
the
the world of nfts precisely because the
blockchain allows us to authenticate and
say that i own that okay
i don't think that would have been a
revolution if that were all that it did
and this is where you get into the whole
right-click save mentality so people
talk about well why would something
that's virtual ever have value i can
just right click save that image and now
i have the same thing that that person
who just paid thousands of dollars for
it paid why that's dumb why would i ever
do that and that's a fundamental
misunderstanding of the technology and
that's why i say you need to understand
the tech once you understand the tech
now you can predict where this goes so
let me give you a simple example of what
we're doing here at impact theory so i
am obsessed with web 3 because not
because of the
necessarily the financial element look
that's a critical part of it that isn't
what gets me excited what gets me
excited about web3 is the fact that
inside of that jpeg is matrix code and
now with a computer i can write a
program
that becomes what i call wallet aware
and your wallet is what they call where
you store your nfts in this case
and i can build an application we
actually have called project kaizen and
with project kaizen when you come into
our environment i can look at your
wallet i can see what you have an
affinity for and then i can create
experiences that respond to what you
have in your wallet so if you were to
have one of impact theory's founders
keys i could create a custom
entertainment experience around that i
could open
magical doors inside of the virtual
world if you had ar glasses on i could
create an experience in real life again
based on what's in your wallet
that idea of wallet aware is going to
change the face of entertainment forever
it is going to change many aspects of
your life it's going to change real
estate medical records obviously
collecting entertainment sports i mean
it's
on and on and on and on it's going to go
so it is this like i said radical sea
change tectonic shift like
whatever
grand idea word that you want to use
it's going to have that level of impact
because
it's
giving people the ability to customize
an experience based on
this
curated
world that you've created for yourself
that represents you and what you like
and you get to decide what's in it you
can take something out put something in
you can create multiple wallets you
could come to project kaizen with all of
your anime nfts because you know that we
are obsessed with anime and so there are
all kinds of things you can do to tailor
those experiences yourself
but as a coder understanding
as an entertainer
as a
as a musician as an artist as so many
people are going to
find that if i can see into your wallet
and see the things you want me to see
the ability to customize an experience
for you to show you something that
nobody else can see to create this back
and forth conversation
between
me as a creator and you as a community
member it's really extraordinary so we
just put something out called the life
map so it's basically the book that i
was going to write distilled down into
just the core idea
now if you were to have one of those
life maps in your wallet and come into
project kaizen
which is a you can think of it as a
game-like experience so it's coded in
unreal engine most of the video games
that you play are coded in unreal engine
a lot of animation is being done in
unreal engine
and now i can do something special for
you because you have that life map so i
created something we gave it to members
of our community those members then come
back with that thing in their wallet we
then create a custom experience for the
people that have it right and and then i
could let you win something get
something earn something whatever and
now that generates another nft in your
wallet and then i can create another
custom experience based on that thing
and so you get into this incredible
level of it's better than to choose your
own adventure but it's like that where
choices you make
allow me to customize experiences which
then allow you to get something else
which allows me to customize an
experience and so you get into this
reciprocal relationship with the
community in a way that makes them far
more than an audience
okay
this is probably getting a little bit
complex
but wallet aware
so hold on to a couple ideas wallet
aware
immutable blockchain
authenticating virtual goods which gives
virtual goods as much value as physical
goods
that's the world that you're living in
that's the world that your kids are
going to grow up in and take for granted
once you have a generation of people
that takes for granted
that the things that they buy
will influence
the entertainment just to keep it so
basic it's way more than that
but just to start there
that the things that you collect
are going to influence
the entertainment as you encounter it so
that you and the person next to you
wearing ar glasses right it's a few
years in the future but bear with me you
both have ar glasses you're both in the
same space and you're having these
unique experiences
because of what's in your wallet
now
as you begin to understand how to
harness that technology and the idea of
being wallet aware predict out five
years
predict out 10 years
as the infrastructure is built it
becomes this
incredible
wonderland the example that i always
give people is i want you to imagine
that you
wear your ar glasses or you could do
this right now today with your phone
you
go to a
a shopping mall
and on their directory is a qr code and
you point your phone at the qr code
and that qr code launches the
[Music]
one day to be created
uh impact theory app
let's say even project kaizen
and
all of a sudden on the floor a blinking
arrow appears because remember with ar i
can make anything appear that i want
and you follow that arrow and that arrow
leads you around the corner and there is
a giant mech from one of the comic books
that we've written
and in that mechs hand is a floating
quest bar and you go and take that quest
bar and it's all virtual so of course
it's an nft and it goes into your wallet
and then once you've grabbed that it
shows another arrow and that arrow leads
you to a gnc and in the gnc you can
redeem that for an actual quest bar that
kind of thing
so
that is
but one example of how something that
is theoretically virtual finds its way
into the real world and that's stuff
that you could do today now imagine
where we go five years ten years from
now it really is going to change
everything medical records is another
great example so putting your medical
records on the blockchain so that you
control them not the hospitals
unfortunately my cousin passed away and
from cancer and my um
technically was my second cousin so it
was my first cousin that
uh
was just heartbroken that he felt that a
big part of the reason that he had
gotten so sick
was that
getting the medical records from one
doctor to another was next to impossible
because of hipaa compliance
now hipaa compliance obviously has its
roots in something wonderful to protect
your privacy
but because you don't control it because
there's no way to make it virtual and
secure it until the blockchain and so
the blockchain allows you to secure this
thing to authenticate who should have
access to it so that you can control it
so that you can show it to whoever you
want
but it puts the control in your hands
all right so that's the fundamental idea
of web3 so
recognizing this idea of authentication
of virtual goods wallet aware that we
can create these tailored experiences
that you can hand craft what you want
the world
to view you as it really is
a extraordinary life-changing technology
and
when you understand those fundamental
elements you can begin to evaluate
projects for how well you think they
understand where this technology is
going to go
and so right now
people are very focused on the financial
element which is exciting and has
brought a ton of energy into the space
and thank god and i think that that has
a lot of implications that are uh
incredible
but
i think that there's an emotional wave
that's about to hit where people are
connected to the experiences and to the
items that they own in a way that hasn't
been possible before and so it's a new
level of
involvement with your favorite things
whether that's
harry potter star wars
um
a friend's
world that they've built in unreal
engine which is just making it so much
easier for people to create
whatever the case
it's going to
deepen and enrich the experiences that
we have with the things that we love the
most
that's
web3
all right
next question the speed at which web 3
is growing makes burning out from fomo
almost a normal thing to do in the
community how do you personally balance
learning and being active in this space
while still maintaining your goals okay
so this is where we all have to be
adults and we have to set limits i use
rules in my life so i have goals
i have routines i have rules and so
i have bright lines about how much time
i spend doing things that are uh you
know just fun or
whatever the case may be so if i'm
treating it like i'm investing then i'm
gonna say how much time do i want to
spend on that and if that's four hours a
day amazing then i spend four hours a
day on it if it's 40 minutes a day then
i spend 40 minutes a day and i don't go
over that so
i think that
web 3 is one of the most profound
technologies i've ever encountered in my
life i cannot
express how much it's changed my
business but i've been very careful to
recognize that it is a double-edged
sword that creates this really bizarre
loop in people's minds of feeling like
they have to check things all the time
constantly constantly checking fo mowing
right fear of missing out people are so
afraid they're going to miss the next
big thing that they're just constantly
in this death loop of checking looking
at the price has it gone up am i in the
discord do i have alpha have i you know
become aware of the next big thing did i
get in early enough have i gotten on the
white list and it really becomes this
maddening death loop and so just like
social media was a double-edged sword so
is web3 and people need to be
extraordinarily protective of their
mental health to not allow yourself to
get in a death loop to put limits on the
amount of time that you do it to put
limits on the number of times that you
check on a project in terms of its price
to
limit the amount of time that you spend
in discord et cetera et cetera et cetera
you have to be really careful it should
be joyful it should be fun it should be
part of a larger strategy if you're
treating it as an investment right i
don't spend nine hours a day on my
stocks so
i would encourage people to put those
guard rails so that you're not getting
sucked into something that you're not
making unwise decisions because of fear
of missing out okay find things that you
are excited about from
an emotional standpoint and this is why
i'm a little
apprehensive about how much focus there
has been put on the financial side of
what's going on in web 3
and not the emotional side and what i
hope is that this next wave of creative
is so emotionally compelling that it
becomes like a book or a movie something
that's enriching your life something
that's making you think of interesting
and unique ideas something that you can
have a personal relationship with go on
this incredible emotional journey learn
something about life improve yourself
our whole thing is at impact theory if
you're winning at impact theory's
project kaizen gamification then you
should be winning in real life
and
as more
projects come on board that have that
approach my hope is that people begin to
attach to those projects for the
emotional rewards that it gives instead
of just the financial rewards so that
would be my advice to people is find a
few things that you connect with
emotionally don't just do it for the
hype cycle and get lost in these death
loops of hype now i have gotten just as
excited as anybody else about some of
these projects and it is fun and it is
very addictive but because it's
addictive i don't allow myself to
go into a negative spiral and i avoid
that by putting rules around how much
time i spend on things
so just be very careful
be very thoughtful don't overextend
every time you buy
any investment whether it's a stock
whether it's a bond whether it is a nft
which i personally do not treat as an
investment just to be very clear
assume that the value is going to go to
zero and if you wouldn't buy it if the
value went to zero don't buy it because
then it becomes stressful and it isn't
fun
so that would be my advice to people
only invest what you can afford to lose
and if that's only five dollars only
invest five dollars
all right
what are a few areas or domains that are
going to be impacted by web3 in the next
one to two years how are they going to
change okay so i talked a lot about this
in the first answer so i'll cover this
briefly but it really comes down to this
idea of wallet aware that the
technologies that are going to come up
are going to be able to
learn something about you by what you
have in your wallet that people are
going to begin to craft
what's in their wallet so that they can
tailor these different experiences to
what they want they're going to
really be able to
contribute to that to be able to create
things themselves that other people
would want to collect as a sign of
participation as a sign of support
whatever the case may be that people are
going to find very easy ways to create
things like a po app which is known as a
proof of attendance protocol and so by
going to a concert your ticket
will change right this is an nft so you
can do things that actually allow it to
change remember in the first answer when
i said that there's actually sometimes
the blockchain is actually pointing to
something off chain that can be changed
so it's called a dnft or a dynamic nft
and so now based on real world events
like your attendance to a concert i can
update that ticket to have new rights it
could give you access to things that you
wouldn't have access to if you only
bought the ticket but didn't attend
you could do things like if somebody has
attended five of their concerts in a
single year that they get access to
something new companies could create
these extraordinary
loyalty programs
because they can verify that you've done
xyz thing right
so for instance in project kaizen one
thing that we're doing is on the release
of the first seven characters of the
reveal of the first seven characters
from the game
if you go in retweet and register you
can actually collect an airdrop for each
of the seven characters if you collect
all seven you can do what's called burn
those so you're getting rid of them you
burn the seven in exchange for an
in-game item and so there's going to be
all kinds of things like that to
um
allow people to
collect and then to use a really fun
word transmogrify that thing by burning
it turning it into something else or a
ticket which literally would update and
be a new image
and again it can look different it can
act differently so it gives you access
to different things
there's all kinds of opportunities once
more creative people come into the space
understand the technology and see what
they can do but there's already some
really extraordinary things being done
just like the internet changed the world
forever
web 3 is going to change the world
forever as well and if you're interested
in learning about the blockchain
cryptocurrency nfts and what all of this
actually means and how it's going to
make for a brighter future i have
created web3 university to teach you
exactly what's going on and make sure
that you aren't left behind registration
is free everything is laid out in
sequential order so even if you aren't
fully sure what a blockchain does or why
people are so excited about all of this
then you can go through step by step and
you'll be well prepared to get started
you can go to
web3u.io to register it's completely
free and we'll be updating the content
there regularly as things change i'll
see you guys inside take care and be
legendary peace
so i think in the next one to two years
entertainment is going to be changed i
think music is going to be changed
obviously as a subset of entertainment i
think that real estate is going to be
changed i think that you're going to see
big changes in medical records i think
that's going to be big i think loyalty
programs are going to radically change
art has already changed
i think you're even going to see the
next evolution of nfts as they become
more focused on the d part of the dnfts
we get more dynamic things more things
responding to what's going on i think um
sports is going to change um example i
think that you're going to start to see
nft based
fantasy leagues happening i think
there's going to be all kinds of things
it is so incredible like when you can
actually prove that somebody owns
something the whole world opens up
video games are going to change
collectible cards are going to change
and on and on and on
all right
can you explain what a sandbox is and
what your thoughts are about sandbox
okay so sandbox is a metaverse
a metaverse is a very loose word that
people i think would have a hard time
defining these days but right now a
metaverse is basically a
sandbox with a lower s so you create a
virtual space that people can go in they
can move around they can meet other
people it's kind of like an
mmorpg uh
where there are
many games being created by a bunch of
disparate people so it's sort of the nft
version of roblox that is built in what
is sort of
a physical space meaning that even
though it's virtual they've taken the
constraints of the physical world so
they limit the size they limit the plot
they limit the height they limit the
physical aspects of the game even though
it's virtual so it isn't technically
physical but you get the idea so they
bring all of that
limitation and as i say limitation makes
the art so i know that people will often
say okay wait these are virtual worlds
why on earth would you make them
infinite uh and the reality is i think
some people will so with project kaizen
we're taking a very different approach
so it isn't constrained in the the we're
not trying to bring the physical
limitations into the virtual world but
we do understand the power of limitation
so we're very cognizant of what we have
to do around uh supply and demand and
things like that we're just not bringing
the physical limitations but that's what
they're doing in most metaverses so
sandbox decentraland being two of the
most famous examples
high amount of constraints and then you
get all of these
minigames being built inside of them so
i think that sandbox is very interesting
and they're doing a wonderful job
of getting people in to play the game
and to create the games
the reason that we didn't
decide to create inside of sandbox is
because when i stepped back and said
okay we're about to make a huge
investment into
stair stepping it's very important to me
that we roll out in phases into being a
triple a game studio as part of what we
do at impact theory and i didn't want to
go heads down for three years or five
years or seven years in the case of some
of these bigger franchises i wanted to
be able to make things
you know and release them you know every
six months or so and and go that way so
that there's cooler and cooler things
that are stacking on top of each other
and when i step back and looked at it i
thought okay well we could build inside
of sandbox but there are all these huge
limitations both from a technological
standpoint from a style standpoint it's
all voxel art if you've seen that
everything's a square
and
also somebody else owns it and so i
can't do whatever i want
and
instead i said well is there a
technology
again follow the developers is there a
technology that's already being used and
there are a few so sandbox has a fair
amount of
developers you've got um
decentraland same thing a fair amount of
developers
but
when i really started looking at it you
start getting into like minecraft has a
lot of people in it roadblocks has a lot
of people in it so we looked at those
but again a lot of the same constraints
that you have on
sandbox
roblox and
minecraft i think are better from that
standpoint but still certainly from a
stylistic standpoint i was very limited
and then i started looking at unity and
unreal engine and when i got to unreal
engine i was like wow this is
appropriately named because it is
unreal
what you can do in that
i happen to have the good fortune of
knowing the uh i guess i think they're
super public yeah they are public about
this so i know the people at bronze
studios uh and they made a decision to
take their animation division and go
entirely into unreal engine and that was
the first time that i was like whoa like
filmmakers are really starting to invest
in it so i started really looking at the
technology i got a behind the scenes
look at what they were able to
accomplish
it melted my brain it's extraordinary i
started looking at real time virtual
production so you could look at an ipad
and see the virtual world there on set
so you could be in an empty warehouse
but look at your ipad and it's you could
see the actor
inside the virtual world as their
character in real time you could do
camera moves it was
insane
so i was blown away by that and then i
started looking at what you could do
from a game development standpoint and
how quickly you could iterate and put
things out
and i was sold
and looking at the sheer volume of
developers that are already savvy on the
platform
i just really believed when i step back
and say okay
if if this is an inextricable march
towards ready player one how do we
actually get to ready player one because
first of all let me tell you ready
player one is a long way off
call it
ten years for like the really basic
version the the non-sort of super
uh
you know where you're feeling everything
but what you can do right now is what i
call the metaverse archipelago so if
ready player one is the metaverse where
everybody is in one place it's all
interconnected
how do we get to that okay first of all
except that you're never going to be
able to step out of one video game into
another because of what's called
balancing so where a weapon is balanced
against all other weapons on that
particular map etc
so that's i don't think ever going to be
a thing
you could make one game that a whole lot
of people play but you're never going to
be able to go from grand theft auto into
fortnite into
destiny 2 which is the game i play
you're never going to be able to bounce
around like that just isn't going to
work because of balancing so i thought
okay but there is this other part to
ready player one the book which if you
haven't read the book read it i think it
so accurately predicts what the
metaverse is going to be like that it's
crazy
i'm not even sure that he
intended to
predict how the blockchain would work
obviously he did a phenomenal job of
just predicting what he thought that
next phase of like snow crash was going
to be um
but he really predicted what the
blockchain allows you to do which is to
create these
very customized experiences
and
they're experiences
they aren't a traditional game and so
ready player one the book will give
people the greatest insight into where
we're going with project kaizen because
of that what i call game-like
experiences so one of the uh game-like
experiences that they talk about in the
book is creating
um man i'm blanking on his name but john
hughes creating john hughes's chicago
suburb where basically all of his films
take place and as a child of the 80s i
was just like oh my god this is so cool
and anybody could go in and create a
world uh level an island however you
want to think about it and create
experiences for people in unreal engine
because it is so
universally used that somebody could
create something for us for instance and
then we could import it into our game
but they wouldn't need to know anything
necessarily about our game they would
just need to know some really basic
specs and then create inside of unreal
engine and so that's when i was like
whoa like this is incredible so you can
create these experiences i don't need to
worry about balancing that a player can
go from
anybody's
game like experience if it doesn't
require balancing as long as
certain standards are agreed upon which
are not yet a thing that hasn't happened
yet but i am very confident that in the
next call it five years that there will
be a tcpip https protocol kind of thing
for the internet that allows web pages
to connect that will allow people to
take their avatar and go from
one metaverse archipelagos like an
island right of a metaverse island if
you will and go from that island to
another island to another island to
another island and so when you look at
now the number of projects that are
beginning to build in unreal engine uh
you've got uh project kaizen so we're
building an unreal engine you've got um
the board api club building an unreal
engine uh you've got um
akira or sorry uh clonex building an
unreal engine
and so there are a lot of these big
projects and there's far more you've got
a lot of these big projects building in
unreal engine and
if they're doing a game that requires
balancing you won't be able to match
those up but if they have these
game-like experiences then you will and
so having one consistent identity across
all of these different projects
once the standards are set and people
adhere to them
then you can do something really
extraordinary i think it is only a
matter of time before those standards
are set
so
that's why in the end we ended up going
with unreal engine i could just see by
following the developers by looking at
how robust the technology was by
understanding the technology so that i
could predict the future i thought okay
this is how you build towards ready
player one again over a long period of
time but you start by creating these
islands you then get the standards that
allow people to at least in the
non-balanced parts be able to go from
place to place to place that allows you
to unite a lot of different communities
and then there's actually more people
i've heard building games where
different communities can come in select
their avatar again in unreal engine so
it doesn't technically allow them to
cross yet because we lack those
standards
but people already have those ideas
which is why i'm so confident that
somebody will develop the standards so
you could do something like create an
avatar but once you go into this
particular combat zone then you have to
pick a weapon from there um
yeah this is how this is going to work
it's crazy and so you start with these
little islands and they will eventually
have more and more connective tissue
until finally it's just one big
metaverse and so when i step back and
thought what had the most versatility
what was going to allow the most people
to come together
what had the most developers what was
the most extraordinary technology
i landed on unreal engine so
i'm excited about sandbox
because it's another place that's doing
something creative in web3
but it wasn't where i wanted to place my
bet
fax
next
how will web pages change on web3 i am
an aspiring web designer that thinks
there could be an edge to designing for
web3 but i don't understand if there is
a difference yet okay so again
focus on this idea of wallet aware so
what makes a web3 web page web3 is that
you can come to that webpage it will
invite you to connect your wallet and
then based on what's in your wallet you
can get access to different things so
we have one of our pages for holders of
the impact theory founders key if you
hold an impact theory founders key you
can get access to ad-free versions of
our content so you would go to our web
page you would connect your wallet and
then because you have one of our keys or
if you don't have one of our keys it
denies you access but if you have one of
our keys it unlocks you can go in to
that space and now watch the ad free
content and there are going to be
thousands tens of thousands hundreds of
thousands of things in the coming
decades that will be like that where you
either get access or don't get access
based on what you have in your wallet
it will be really extraordinary so you
want to think about okay i'm going to
create this web page i'm going to
communicate to the blockchain it's
relatively straightforward and then what
do i want people to be able to do and
you can create these really exciting
cool experiences based on that
and again you can do different things
based on what somebody has in their
wallet so if you're looking at webgl at
all this is something i'll predict in
the future i haven't seen anybody do it
yet
but my instinct is that you'll be able
to create these customized animated
experiences so that if you show up to a
webgl page depending on what's in your
wallet will determine how things move
and interact i think it's going to be
really really extraordinary so again
this is why i started this whole thing
off by saying you want to first look at
what does the technology do what does it
allow you to do once you understand what
the technology allows you to do
then you can start really building for
it but basically a web3 page is just
something that can communicate to the
blockchain which allows you to then look
into the wallet you can do a read-only
page where you're just reading what's in
their wallet you could do read write
where you can actually mint nfts
and once you're minting and reading the
possibilities are virtually endless
all right
here's a hard question how safe is web3
at the moment
it is
safe
unless
you let your guard down
so the blockchain itself is pretty safe
but man scammers go hard scammers go
hard so you need to be really careful
because while the blockchain
the ethereum and bitcoin blockchains
some blockchains are more susceptible
than others but a well-engineered
blockchain is virtually unhackable once
it has enough network effect to have a
lot of computers out there in a totally
distributed way
but
humans
make mistakes and so each of us are our
own vulnerability and so i won't lie i
sweat over web3 safety
and i highly encourage all of you to
sweat over web3 safety to really be
thoughtful about what links you click
because damn like the number of ways
that people can convince you to
accidentally give them access to your
account
is crazy so you really really have to be
hyper paranoid as i say only the
paranoid survive so yeah be thoughtful
do yourself a favor do not click unknown
links do not min unknown projects be
extremely reticent to let anyone in your
dms people will pretend to be other
people people pretend to be me people
pretend to me be me in discord they
pretend to be me on whatsapp telegram
like wherever they will pretend to be
your favorite person anybody that you've
communicated with
and or haven't communicated with it's
crazy so you really do have to be very
very thoughtful because this is a moment
where
people haven't trained themselves enough
to be diligent so while you might have
your guard up in email
because we've all been trained you
better have your guard up in email
but you might let your guard down in
discord or
on twitter so you really really need to
be
very careful
be very careful
i can't stress that enough the number of
heartbreaking stories out there are just
too many to name
so be very very careful
all right can you please connect d5 to
web3 okay so d5 is decentralized finance
it is a fascinating
movement
i would be a little bit careful
it's early enough there's still people
getting their hands burned uh it's early
enough that there's not a lot of
legislation
and so
people are getting
uh sued is that the right word so
companies companies are getting sued
for
um
i'm not even going to save the for
because i haven't looked closely enough
at this and i don't want to say
something it isn't untrue but i know
that some very hefty fines have been
given out
for defy companies that are doing things
that the sec
warrants to be a security so just be
very thoughtful do your research before
getting into defy but the the whole idea
is defy is leveraging the blockchain in
a similar way to web3 just doing it for
finance versus in our case um web3 being
focused on entertainment
but i would use web3 as a very
encompassing term that would encompass
d5 would encompass cryptocurrency
so
web3 to me is about ownership and
participation so anything now that you
can own and participate in
for me falls under the umbrella of web3
so it could be entertainment it could be
finance it could be medical records it
could be a lot of things so
that's ultimately the connection but
defy is
is a financial protocol that is almost
certainly going to be the dominant
way that we all save money in the future
right now it is an unregulated uh
wild wild west so be very thoughtful
but
it seems inevitable that that's where
we're headed that people would be able
to
do what's called staking which is beyond
the scope of this conversation for two
reasons one i don't consider it a
beginner's
thing to do and two i don't do it and so
i am very much not an expert but you
could find a lot of information out
there on d5 i highly encourage you guys
to check out bankless they do a
phenomenal job
of creating
great content around things like d5
so yeah check that out
but that's d5 and it's connection to
web3
all right
next let's say ethereum just doesn't
make it as a currency what happens to
our nfts that were minted on that
blockchain are they still safe forever
okay they're safe as long as the
blockchain exists and ipfs exists so
ipfs is beyond
the scope of the basics but earlier when
i was talking about how you have this
thing that points at this thing over
here when it's pointing to this thing
over here it's usually pointing at an
ipfs server
so
if
the project doesn't pay for their ipfs
server then the thing that the
blockchain is pointing to would become
blank
but as people have noted if that were
ever to happen somebody could spin that
back up because the blockchain unless
the blockchain went down which would
whoa
be
very
it would
require that the entire blockchain
implode on itself which is possible i
want to be very clear that if everybody
stops believing in the ethereum protocol
and there are no people that are
securing the ethereum protocol then the
ethereum protocol would for all intents
and purposes cease to function given the
network effects of how many people are
securing the ethereum protocol and how
much value there is in the ethereum
protocol in terms of
money invested that seems like a long
shot it is definitely not impossible
again i am not a financial advisor do
your own research
but it's highly unlikely so the short
answer is yes it could collapse go to
zero
be totally meaningless cease to
effectively function as a blockchain and
everything that you had on it would be
gone
but i feel way more secure about the
things that i have secured on the
blockchain than i do say something in my
house or my car
which can be broken into so keep that in
mind
but if it didn't make it as a currency
and the blockchain collapsed then yes it
would go away and know your things would
not be safe forever in that instance
so it really comes down to what do you
think are the odds and this is why i am
focused on the top two biggest the ones
that have the biggest network effects um
it just is way less likely that they
implode it's not impossible but it's way
less likely
so be very very thoughtful again only
invest
what you can afford to have go to zero
i think that is the right approach to
take
at this stage or any stage i wouldn't
buy more in gold than i could afford to
go to xero
so be thoughtful out there my friends
all right those are some abcs of what's
going on in the world of web3 i hope
that you guys will go and learn about it
it is extraordinary it is in the process
of changing everything this isn't like
something that's going to happen only in
10 years it's happening right now the
amount of things that has already
changed in my own life is extraordinary
and then when i look at what we're
building oh my god
it's going to change everything so go
learn about it my friends be out of the
curve it will reward you
i won't say richly because it is not a
get rich quick scheme though some people
are using it for that it is
a transformational technology that is
going to improve a lot of things in the
human experience so don't be the last to
the party go learn about what's
happening in the web 3. all right
everybody until next time my friends be
legendary take care peace
you can liquidate a billion dollars of
bitcoin on the weekend in any currency
you know any any time
try liquidating a billion dollar
building
right that's three year process right so
it's liquid it's fungible it's desirable
that's what makes the asset valuable